README.md, before:

# Script Launcher
This is an Obsidian plugin that allows you to easily run script written in any language directly from the app
## How to install it
Go to the most recent tag and download the script-launcher zip, unzip it and extract the script-launcher folder (it should contain 3 files: main.js manifest.json and styles.css)

Move this folder into `path_to_your_vault/.obsidian/plugins/` (if the plugins folder is not already there create it)

Remember to enable [Commpunity Plugins](https://help.obsidian.md/Extending+Obsidian/Community+plugins) in the Obsidian settings
## How to use it
### Adding a new script 
Go in the plugin settings and click the `+` icon
You will have to fill in some information about the script you want to add:
1. `Script name` → the name of the script you want to add (has no influnence on the script itself)
2. `Script path` → absolute path to the script you want to launch (it can be anything: binary, executable, python script,shell script, bash script ecc...)
3. `Show on bottom bar` → this is a checkbox, if selected the script will be shoen on the bottom bar and clicking it will launch it
4. `Icon` → is the icon discplayed on the bottom bar, if left empty the name will be shown instead

### Deleting a script 
Click the `Delete` button on the script's settings you want to delete 

### Launching a script 

Click the scipt icon on the bottom bar of the Obsidian app.
If the script does not show up as an icon go in the settings and select `Show on bottom bar`

You can also run the script using the `Run script` Obsidian command, you will be prompted with a list of scripts with a searchbar, selecting a script will run it.


The output of the script will be shown as notices in the Obsidian app

## Examples 

### Google Drive backup 
This script for example syncs on demand files from all you vaults at the click of a button
```bash
 (cd $path_to_vaults && grive -s $vaults_folder)
```
![Gif showing how the example plugin works](https://github.com/AlessandroRuggiero/script-launcher/blob/master/docs/images/launching-scipt-example.gif)

if you want to write a script to backup only the files in your vault you can use the `$1` argument:
The plugin passes the path to your vault as the first parameter to the script
```bash
 (cd $path_to_script && grive -s $1)
```
The second parameter passed to the script (`$2`) is the path to the currently open file, if there is no open file an empty string will be returned (`""`)

## Advanced settings
The scripts informations are saved in the `data.json` file under the `.obsidian/plugins` folder

This is how it looks normally:
```json
[
    {
        "name": "Example",
        "path": "/home/user/Documents/obsi/s.sh",
        "showOnBottomBar": true,
        "icon": "☁",
    }
]
```
But you can manually add some options that are not shown in the user interface if needed:
1. Showing exit code → add this filed to the json
    ```json
    "showExitCode": true
    ```
    The exit code will be shown as a Obsidian notice:

    ![exit code notice](https://github.com/AlessandroRuggiero/script-launcher/blob/master/docs/images/exit-code-notice.png)

Commit message:

run script on startup and better docs

README.md, after:

# Script Launcher
This is an Obsidian plugin that allows you to easily run script written in any language directly from the app.

## How to use it
### Adding a new script 
Go in the plugin settings and click the `+` icon
You will have to fill in some information about the script you want to add:
1. `Script name` → the name of the script you want to add (has no influnence on the script itself)
2. `Script path` → absolute path to the script you want to launch (it can be anything: binary, executable, python script,shell script, bash script ecc...)
3. `Show on bottom bar` → this is a checkbox, if selected the script will be shown on the bottom bar and clicking it will launch it
4. `Run on startup` → this is a checkbox, if selected the script will run automatically once Obsidian start up
5. `Show exit code` → this is a checkbox, if selected the script show the exit code when terminated
6. `Icon` → is the icon displayed on the bottom bar, if left empty the name will be shown instead

### Deleting a script 
Click the `Delete` button on the script's settings you want to delete 

### Launching a script 

Click the scipt icon on the bottom bar of the Obsidian app.
If the script does not show up as an icon go in the settings and select `Show on bottom bar`

You can also run the script using the `Run script` Obsidian command, you will be prompted with a list of scripts with a searchbar, selecting a script will run it.


The output of the script will be shown as notices in the Obsidian app.

## Examples 

### Google Drive backup 
This script for example syncs on demand files from all you vaults at the click of a button
```bash
 (cd $path_to_vaults && grive -s $vaults_folder)
```
![Gif showing how the example plugin works](https://github.com/AlessandroRuggiero/script-launcher/blob/master/docs/images/launching-scipt-example.gif)

if you want to write a script to backup only the files in your vault you can use the `$1` argument:
The plugin passes the path to your vault as the first parameter to the script
```bash
 (cd $path_to_script && grive -s $1)
```
The second parameter passed to the script (`$2`) is the path to the currently open file, if there is no open file an empty string will be returned (`""`)

## How to install it
Remember to enable [Commpunity Plugins](https://help.obsidian.md/Extending+Obsidian/Community+plugins) in the Obsidian settings.
### From the Community plugins
The best way to install the plugin is through the Obsidian community plugins, just search for `script launcher` and you will immediately find it.
### Build from source
Folow this simple steps:
First clone the repo, then in the repo's folder run
```bash
    make build_and_copy vault_path=path_to_your_vault
```

This will build the plugin and move the files in the correct folder in your vault to allow you to test it


### From a tag
Go to the most recent tag and download the `script-launcher` zip, unzip it and extract the script-launcher folder (it should contain 3 files: main.js manifest.json and styles.css)

Move this folder into `path_to_your_vault/.obsidian/plugins/` (if the plugins folder is not already there create it)
